About Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml belongs to the class of medication called 'cough and cold medications' primarily used to treat symptoms of the common cold and allergies like sneezing, runny/stuffy nose, fever, headache, body pains, congestion, or watery eyes. The common cold is a respiratory illness affecting the nose and throat. It is mostly caused by viruses known as 'rhinovirus'. The virus enters the body through the nose, mouth, or eyes and spreads easily through droplets in the air when the person who is sick sneezes, coughs, or talks.

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml is a combination of three drugs, namely: Paracetamol (mild analgesic and antipyretic), Phenylephrine hydrochloride (decongestant), and Chlorpheniramine maleate (antihistamine/antiallergic). Paracetamol works by inhibiting the production of certain chemical messengers in the brain known as prostaglandins responsible for pain and fever. Phenylephrine hydrochloride works by shrinking the blood vessels in the nasal passage. Thereby providing relief from congestion and decreasing excess mucus production. Chlorpheniramine maleate works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance responsible for causing allergic reactions. It helps to provide relief from symptoms of allergy.

Take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml as prescribed. Your doctor will recommend how often you need to take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml based on your medical condition. Some people may experience drowsiness, nervousness, headache, dizziness, insomnia (difficulty falling or staying asleep), blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth. Most of these side effects of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml do not require medical attention and gradually resolve over time. However, if the side effects persist or worsen, please consult your doctor.

If you are allergic to Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml or any other medicines, please tell your doctor. If you are pregnant, it is advised to inform your doctor before using Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml. Do not use Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml if you are breastfeeding without a doctor’s advice, as it may be excreted in breast milk and cause harm to the baby. Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml is not recommended for children below 4 years. Please do not take more than the prescribed dose of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml as it may cause liver damage.
Uses of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml

Common cold, Allergies
Medicinal Benefits

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml contains Paracetamol, Phenylephrine hydrochloride, and Chlorpheniramine maleate. Paracetamol is a mild analgesic (relieves pain) and antipyretic (reduces fever) that works by inhibiting the production of certain chemical messengers in the brain known as prostaglandins that are responsible for pain and fever. Phenylephrine hydrochloride is a decongestant that works by contracting and narrowing the blood vessels. Thereby, providing relief from congestion and decreasing mucus production. Chlorpheniramine maleate is an antihistamine (anti-allergic drug) that works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance responsible for causing allergic reactions. It helps to provide relief from symptoms of allergy such as sneezing, running nose, watery eyes, itching, swelling, and congestion or stiffness.
Directions for Use

    Tablet/capsule: Take it with or without food as advised by the doctor. Swallow it whole with a glass of water. Do not crush, chew or break it.
    Oral syrup: Shake the bottle well before use. Check the label for directions and take the syrup with or without food in doses as prescribed by a doctor with the help of a measuring cup.

Storage

Store in a cool and dry place away from sunlight.
Side Effects of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml

    Drowsiness
    Nervousness
    Headache
    Dizziness
    Insomnia (difficulty in falling or staying asleep)
    Blurred vision
    Constipation
    Dry mouth

In-Depth Precautions and Warning
Drug Warnings

If you are allergic to Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml or any other medicines, please tell your doctor. If you are pregnant, it is advised to inform your doctor before using Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml. Do not use Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml if you are breastfeeding without a doctor’s advice as it may be excreted in breast milk and cause harm to the baby. Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml is not recommended for children below 4 years. Please do not take more than the prescribed dose of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml as it may cause liver damage. If you have high blood pressure, diabetes, glaucoma, hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid), chronic bronchitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), blockage in the stomach or intestines, enlarged prostate gland, pheochromocytoma (tumor in the adrenal glands), kidney, liver, heart or urinary problems, inform your doctor before taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
Drug Interactions

Drug-Drug Interaction: Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may interact with anti-allergic drugs (diphenhydramine, cetirizine), antidepressants (duloxetine, escitalopram), anticonvulsants (clonazepam), antianxiety drug (alprazolam), muscle relaxants (cyclobenzaprine), cough suppressants (dextromethorphan), bronchodilator (albuterol), sleeping agent (ramelteon), pain and fever medicines (paracetamol), pain killers (ibuprofen).

Drug-Food Interaction: Avoid intake of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml with chocolate and caffeine-containing foods such as cocoa beans and tea leaves as they may increase the risk of severity of side effects. Avoid consumption of alcohol with Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml as it may increase the risk of liver damage and cause increased drowsiness, dizziness and difficulty in concentrating.

Drug-Disease Interaction: If you have high blood pressure, diabetes, glaucoma, hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid), chronic bronchitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), blockage in the stomach or intestines, enlarged prostate gland, pheochromocytoma (tumor in the adrenal glands), kidney, liver, heart or urinary problems, inform your doctor before taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
Drug-Drug Interactions Checker List:

    DIPHENHYDRAMINE
    CETIRIZINE
    DULOXETINE
    ESCITALOPRAM
    CLONAZEPAM
    ALPRAZOLAM
    CYCLOBENZAPRINE
    DEXTROMETHORPHAN
    ALBUTEROL
    PARACETAMOL
    IBUPROFEN
    RAMELTEON

Safety Advice
Safety Warning: Alcohol

Avoid consumption of alcohol with Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml as it may increase the risk of liver damage and cause increased drowsiness, dizziness or difficulty in concentrating. Please consult a doctor before consuming alcohol with Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
Safety Warning: Pregnancy

The safety of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml in pregnant women is unknown. Therefore, it is given to pregnant women only if the doctor thinks benefits outweigh risks.
Safety Warning: Breast Feeding

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may be excreted in breast milk and cause harm to the baby. Besides this, Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may also slow the milk production, so it is better to contact a doctor before a lactating mother takes it.
Safety Warning: Driving

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may cause blurred vision or impair thinking in some people. Therefore, drive only if you are alert after taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
Safety Warning: Liver

Take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml with caution, especially if you have a history of Liver diseases/conditions. The dose may be adjusted by your doctor as required.
Safety Warning: Kidney

Take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml with caution, especially if you have a history of Kidney diseases/conditions. The dose may be adjusted by your doctor as required.
Safety Warning: Children

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml is not recommended for children below four years of age. However, please consult a doctor before giving Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml to children.
Safety Warning: Other Precautions

If you have high blood pressure, diabetes, glaucoma, hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid), chronic bronchitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), blockage in the stomach or intestines, enlarged prostate gland, pheochromocytoma (tumor in the adrenal glands), kidney, liver, heart or urinary problems, inform your doctor before taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
FAQs
Q. Can I take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml for a cough?

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml is used for relieving symptoms of the common cold, allergies, and associated cough. It may help in reducing cough caused by congestion and post-nasal drip. However, it is advisable to consult a doctor before taking any medication.
Q. Can I take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml during pregnancy?

The safety of Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml in pregnant women is unknown. Therefore, it is given to pregnant women only if the doctor thinks benefits outweigh risks. Please consult your doctor before taking any medication during pregnancy.
Q. Can I take Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml while breastfeeding?

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may be excreted in breast milk and cause harm to the baby. Besides this, Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may also slow the milk production, so it is better to contact a doctor before a lactating mother takes it. Please consult your doctor before taking any medication while breastfeeding.
Q. Can I drive after taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml?

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml may cause blurred vision or impair thinking in some people. Therefore, drive only if you are alert after taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
Q. Can I consume alcohol while taking Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml?

Avoid consumption of alcohol with Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml as it may increase the risk of liver damage and cause increased drowsiness, dizziness or difficulty in concentrating. Please consult a doctor before consuming alcohol with Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml.
Q. Can I give Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml to my child?

Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml is not recommended for children below four years of age. However, please consult a doctor before giving Solvin Cold Syrup 60 ml to children.
